{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf2512
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset134 STSongti-SC-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red46\green129\blue180;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c21961\c58039\c75686;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh15140\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
------------------------------\
REVIEWER REPORT:\
------------------------------\
\
Please note that reviewers may not be numbered consecutively. Where reviewers have provided additional files, these are available here: \
\
EVALUATION:\
\
Reviewer's Responses to Questions\
\
Please rate the importance of this submission.\
\
Reviewer #1: Should be published in this journal\
\
Reviewer #2: Could be considered for a sister journal\
\
Reviewer #3: Should be published in this journal\
\
--------------------\
\
Please rate the originality of this submission.\
\
Reviewer #1: Acceptable level of new results\
\
Reviewer #2: Acceptable level of new results\
\
Reviewer #3: Acceptable level of new results\
\
--------------------\
\
Please rate the scientific and technical content of this submission.\
\
Reviewer #1: Fully consistent and accurate\
\
Reviewer #2: Major inconsistencies or inaccuracies\
\
Reviewer #3: Fully consistent and accurate\
\
--------------------\
\
Please rate the length of this submission.\
\
Reviewer #1: Concise and correct length\
\
Reviewer #2: Contains unnecessary information\
\
Reviewer #3: Concise and correct length\
\
\
\
COMMENTS TO AUTHOR:\
\
Reviewer #1: This manuscript provides a description of a monolithically fabricated ion trap suitable for experiments with two-dimensional ion crystals, together with first experiments coupling to vibrational sidebands of two-dimensional ion crystals.\
Quantum information processing with 2D ion crystals instead of linear strings of arrays is of interest from the point of view of (1) increasing the number of qubits that can be coupled, and (2) realizing an ion-qubit geometry for analog quantum simulations that enable the study of 2d lattice systems. So far, the only spin-spin simulations undertaken with ions in a 2d geometry have been performed in Penning traps where the rotation of planar crystals makes single-qubit manipulation and state detection quite challenging.\
\
Wang and colleagues present the design and fabrication in sufficient detail and report on experiments that open the prospect of carrying out spin-spin simulations with tens of ions. I recommend publication of the manuscript based on the novelty of the results, but would like to ask the authors to answer the following questions:\
\
1. In section 3, it is stated that adjustment of two voltages, V_C and V_\{NC\}, enables the rotation of the principal axes of the pseudopotential resulting from the overall potential given in equation (1), which, in addition, features the rf-voltage as a third control parameter. Shouldn't one want to have four control parameters if one wishes to set the three oscillation frequencies of an ion and to control in addition the orientation of the principal axes in a plane?  \
\
2. Fig. 1a shows a U-shaped rf-rail. Is this rf-electrode just from one side, and if so, are there any problems expected from rf-currents flowing in opposite directions that might give rise to rf-induced ac-Zeeman shifts? Is the resistivity of the electrode small enough so that the one can expect the voltages on opposite rf-electrodes to be equal?\
\
3.I did not understand the meaning of equation (3) and the statement that "\\delta z is related to the size of the crystal". I understand that the first derivative of the potential with respect to y has to vanish, but what does it mean that it should vanish in (x,z) = (0,\\delta y)? Why not just in (x,z)=(0,0), or if one wishes make it vanish in an extended region along z, why isn't there a similar condition for the x-direction?\
\
4. Section 3: the authors state a mean phonon number after Doppler cooling, but do not mention the vibrational frequency for which this number was found. To put it into a context, it would be important to know the trap frequency.\
\
5. Section 3: the statement that Raman beams "are applied perpendicular to the z-axis" should be made more precise by stating the plane to which the Raman k-vector is normal.\
\
6. Section 4: the sentence "\'a1\'adthese frequencies look violating the bound for the 2D crystal in Fig. 2e. However, it is a complicated situation" should be rephrased and better explained. Simply referring to appendix E at this point is frustrating to the reader.\
\
7. Figure 5: it would be nice if a slightly more detailed explanation of the effect of off-resonant coupling to the other two out-of-plane modes could be given (for example, I immediately wondered how close the other non-center-of-mass mode is in frequency space to the driven mode. Is the thermal occupation of these modes a problem, etc.)\
\
\
\
Reviewer #2: The central question addressed by the manuscript is important. What are the conditions to use self-assembled planar ion crystals for quantum simulation? Can you address vibrational modes as for the case of a linear ion crystal? Therefore, I am in principle very positive about the topic and that experimental work is done in this field.  However, this manuscript does not answer the questions sufficiently. The three-ion data and simulations are a fully distinct topic and the authors did not manage to merge or even connect this part in a good way with the other.  I would advise them to concentrate on either one of the parts\
In detail: The abstract is rather an introduction. The authors should cut the beginning, cut all the general facts and describe what has been done here. One sentence of gerenal intro may stay, but not more. On the other hand, there is not a single experimental fact except the rather unimportant spacing of the ions. What means "several dozens", or "carful design", what means "large optical access"? Better make this specific and give relevant numbers. What is really the core message of this work? \
The introduction contains relevant literature, but I would ask the authors to use citesort such that it converts in line 48 to [1-17]. Also, this way of citing seems to me a bit uncharitable, to collect basically all the references in one bracket and not to be specific a little more about them. In the later sections, one can barely find references, which is strange. This should be changed. \
Line 32 there is something wrong with the reference [?,36].\
Line 61 ff, I do not see any reference to calculations of mode frequencies which take the micromotion into account. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1751-8113/45/45/455305/pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1751-8113/45/45/455305/pdf}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1367-2630/14/9/093023/pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1367-2630/14/9/093023/pdf}}\
The discussion, if or why the pseudo potential approach would fit the data is missing. Also Ref[36] should be cmpleted by the other more recent methods above. The fit of data and pseudo poential expectations in Fig 3b is astonishing and should be discussed.\
In Fig 2 there are no error bars, I could not find a discussion or errors of the measurement. Especially the points at RF = 140 V are not understandable. Is it an \\omega_x, but then why are there no other values? \
on the side with equ. 4, in line 58 the reference shows [?]\
At the end of the paper, the authors claim that the surface and color code would benefit from 2D ion crystals, this is not really right as the Innsbruck ion trapping group has demonstrated encoding a logic qubit and they used a linear ion crystal. The dimensionality of the code has nothing to do with the dimension of the ion arrangement. Full connectivity allows for any gates between qubits and do not require next neighbors.\
The appendix F comes like a surprise, what is the logic connection to the rest? This refers also to fig 11\
Ref.  typos: \
[12] Paul  Coulomb\
[16] Phys. Rev. Lett. , Penning\
[21] Paul\
[22] Paul, Coulomb\
[27] Paul\
[38] Coulomb\
[39] Phys. Rev. Lett.\
[40] 2D\
[41] Phys. Rev. Lett.\
[42] ^\{171\}Yb^+\
[45] Phys. Rev. Lett.\
[46] Bacon-Shor, Phys. Rev. Lett.\
[48] 2D, 3D\
Fig. 3 what are the scan parameters such as laser excitation pulse length, number of experiments averaged, ect\
In general, I miss a description of the data taking sequence with the details\
Similar in Fig. 4 give more details, how this was measured, also have a look on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://journals.aps.org/pra/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevA.60.R3335"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 https://journals.aps.org/pra/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevA.60.R3335}} and cite this.\
Fig. 5 typo: coupling, add details of the experiment\
Fig 8 and 9 are not relevant for publication, should be suppressed.\
Fig 10 Take care that you include the calculation which is not limited to the pseudo potential approximation by H Landa et al\
\
\
\
Reviewer #3: The manuscript by Kim and collaborators is an experimental and numerical characterization of an experimental setup based on a Paul trap for two-dimensional ion crystals. I here give my feedback as a theoretician: I find the manuscript sound, the results very interesting, and their setup is very promising for simulating topological physics with ions. I recommend publication after the authors have considered the following minor remarks:\
\
1. There are some references which are not properly compiled in the manuscript (they appear with ??). \
\
2. The abstract would need some revision in order to make it easier to read.\
\
3. Section IV. \
The authors refer to the aspect ratio needed in order to have a stable planar crystal. The condition is based on mean-field calculations, which assume T=0 and discards quantum fluctuations. I remark that at temperature different from zero the condition is modified. This has been reported in\
D. Podolsky et al, Phys. Rev. X 6, 031025 - Published 22 August 2016, \
Here, the transition from 2D to 3D crystals has been analysed for finite temperature and for T=0 including quantum fluctuations.\
\
4. Section V. \
The authors refer to the instability linear-zigzag in a 1D chain referring to an experimental analysis of the Los Alamos group, which studied small ion chains and hinted towars critical behaviour based on the numerical work of J. Schiffer, Phys. Rev. Lett. 70, 818 (1993). I point out that the full analysis of the critical behaviour has been performed in \
S. Fishman et al, Phys. Rev. B 77, 064111 - Published 25 February 2008.\
and confirmed in several experiments by the groups of T. Sch\uc0\u228 tz, T. Mehlstaeubler, and F. Schimdt-Kaler.\
\
\
\
\
--\
Dr. Ingeborg Stass, Editor\
Advanced Quantum Technologies\
E-mail: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:advquantumtech@wiley.com"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 advquantumtech@wiley.com}}\
Tel: +49(0)6201-606-235\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.advquantumtech.com/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 http://www.advquantumtech.com}}\
\
\
\
Advanced Quantum Technologies (QUTE) has been accepted for indexing in Web of Science.\
\
To ensure that you and your colleagues can read Advanced Quantum Technologies, please ask your librarian to opt in for free online access: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://olabout.wiley.com/WileyCDA/Section/id-406102.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 http://olabout.wiley.com/WileyCDA/Section/id-406102.html}}\
\
Read about top research in healthcare, sustainability, and technology and watch video abstracts at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.advancedsciencenews.com/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 www.AdvancedScienceNews.com}}\
*****\
By submitting a manuscript to or reviewing for this publication, your name, email address, and affiliation, and other contact details the publication might require, will be used for the regular operations of the publication, including, when necessary, sharing with the publisher (Wiley) and partners for production and publication. The publication and the publisher recognize the importance of protecting the personal information collected from users in the operation of these services, and have practices in place to ensure that steps are taken to maintain the security, integrity, and privacy of the personal data collected and processed. You can learn more at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://authorservices.wiley.com/statements/data-protection-policy.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 https://authorservices.wiley.com/statements/data-protection-policy.html}}\
\
Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA - A company of John Wiley & Sons, Inc. - Location of the Company: Weinheim - Trade Register Mannheim, HRB 432833. Chairman of the Supervisory Board: John Kritzmacher. General Partner: John Wiley & Sons GmbH, Location: Weinheim - Trade Register Mannheim, HRB 432296 - Managing Directors: Sabine Haag, Dr. Guido F. Herrmann.\
*****\
Please be aware that if you ask to have your user record removed, we will retain your name in the records concerning manuscripts for which you were an author, reviewer, or editor.\
}